# Python Markdown Bleach

Markdown extension to sanitize the output of untrusted Markdown documents.

## Installation

    pip install python-markdown-bleach

## Basic Usage

    >>> import markdown
    >>> from mdx_bleach.extension import BleachExtension
    >>> bleach = BleachExtension()
    >>> md = markdown.Markdown(extensions=[bleach])
    >>> md.convert('<span>is not allowed</span>')
    u'<p>&lt;span&gt;is not allowed&lt;/span&gt;</p>'

## Overview

By design, HTML markup is allowed in Markdown documents. Unless written inside a code block, raw HTML is not escaped and is therefore rendered by the browser. While this is a nice authoring feature, it also exposes some XSS vulnerabilities. That becomes a problem when the source of the Markdown document is untrusted.

Python Markdown Bleach is a safer and more flexible alternative to [Python Markdown](https://pythonhosted.org/Markdown/reference.html)'s deprecated safe mode. It uses [Bleach](http://bleach.readthedocs.org/en/latest/), a robust a whitelist-based HTML sanitizer, to sanitize the output of Markdown documents.

## Configuration

To configure the extension, pass the following keyword arguments to ``BleachExtension``:
* ``tags`` Tag Whitelist
* ``attributes`` Attribute Whitelist
* ``styles`` Styles Whitelist
* ``strip`` Stripping Markup
* ``strip_comments`` Stripping Comments

The following example reflects the default configuration::

    from mdx_bleach.whitelist import ALLOWED_TAGS, ALLOWED_ATTRIBUTES, ALLOWED_STYLES
    bleach = BleachExtension(tags=ALLOWED_TAGS, attributes=ALLOWED_ATTRIBUTES, styles=ALLOWED_STYLES, strip=False, strip_comments=True)
    md = markdown.Markdown(extensions=[bleach])

### Tag Whitelist

The ``tags`` kwarg is a whitelist of allowed HTML tags. It should be a list,
tuple, or other iterable. Any other HTML tags will be escaped or stripped from
the text. This applies to the HTML output that Markdown produces. The default
value is a conservative list of tags found in mdx_bleach.whitelist.ALLOWED_TAGS.

Since Markdown outputs common HTML elements like ``p``, ``a``, ``img`` all
the time, it is recommended to allow at minimum the sensible set of tags found
in the default tag whitelist. If a third party extension generating more specific
elements is installed, you will need to whitelist those additional tags.

For example::

    >>> from mdx_bleach.whitelist import ALLOWED_TAGS
    >>> bleach = BleachExtension(tags=ALLOWED_TAGS + ['small'])
    >>> md = markdown.Markdown(extensions=[bleach])
    >>> md.convert('<small>is allowed</small>')
    u'<p><small>is allowed</small></p>'

This will allow raw ``small`` elements included by the author along with any
element listed in the default tag whitelist that might be included by the
author or generated by Markdown itself.

### Attribute Whitelist

The ``attributes`` kwarg is a whitelist of attributes. It can be a list, in
which case the attributes are allowed for any tag, or a dictionary, in which
case the keys are tag names (or a wildcard: ``*`` for all tags) and the values
are lists of allowed attributes.

The default value is a conservative dictionary found in mdx_bleach.whitelist.ALLOWED_ATTRIBUTES.
If you override the ``attributes`` kwarg and still want to support images and
links, make sure to allow the ``href`` and ``title`` attributes in ``a`` tags,
as well as the ``src``, ``title`` and ``alt`` attributes in ``img`` tags.

For example::

    attrs = {
        '*': ['class'],
        'a': ['href', 'title', 'rel'],
        'img': ['src', 'title', 'alt'],
    }

In this case, the ``class`` attribute is allowed on any allowed element (from
the ``tags`` argument), ``<a>`` tags are allowed to have ``href``, ``title`` and
``rel`` attributes, and so on.

You can also use a callable (instead of a list). If the callable returns True,
the attribute is allowed. Otherwise, it is stripped.

For example::

    def filter_src(name, value):
        if name in ('alt', 'title', 'height', 'width'):
            return True
        if name == 'src':
            p = urlparse(value)
            return (not p.netloc) or p.netloc == 'mydomain.com'
        return False

### Styles Whitelist

If you allow the ``style`` attribute, you will also need to whitelist styles
authors are allowed to set, for example ``color`` and ``background-color``.

The default value is an empty list, i.e., the ``style`` attribute will be
allowed but no values will be.

For example, to allow authors to set the color and font-weight of spans::

    attrs = {
        'span': ['style']
    }
    attrs = dict(ALLOWED_ATTRIBUTES.items() + attr.items())
    tags = ALLOWED_TAGS + ['span']
    styles = ['color', 'font-weight']

### Stripping Markup

By default, Bleach *escapes* disallowed or invalid markup. For example::

    >>> md = markdown.Markdown(extensions=[BleachExtension()])
    >>> md.convert('<span>is not allowed</span>')
    u'<p>&lt;span&gt;is not allowed&lt;/span&gt;'

If you would rather Bleach stripped this markup entirely, you can pass
``strip=True``::

    >>> md = markdown.Markdown(extensions=[BleachExtension(strip=True)])
    >>> md.convert('<span>is not allowed</span>')
    u'<p>is not allowed</p>'

### Stripping Comments

By default, Bleach will strip out HTML comments. To disable this behavior, set
``strip_comments=False``::

    >>> html = 'my<!-- commented --> html'

    >>> md = markdown.Markdown(extensions=[BleachExtension()])
    >>> md.convert(html)
    u'<p>my html</p>'

    >>> md = markdown.Markdown(extensions=[BleachExtension(strip_comments=False)])
    >>> md.convert(html)
    u'<p>my<!-- commented --> html</p>'

## Links

- [Source](https://github.com/Wenzil/python-markdown-bleach)
- [Bleach](http://bleach.readthedocs.org/en/latest/)
- [Markdown](http://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/)
- [Python Markdown](https://pythonhosted.org/Markdown/)
